# DevSkiller programming task sample - Terraform

## Introduction

With [DevSkiller.com](https://devskiller.com) you can assess your candidates'
programming skills as a part of your recruitment process. We have found that
programming tasks are the best way to do this and have built our tests
accordingly. The way our test works is your candidate is asked to modify the
source code of an existing project.

During the test, your candidates have the option of using our browser-based
code editor and can build the project inside the browser at any time. If they
would prefer to use an IDE they are more comfortable with, they can also
download the project code or clone the project’s Git repository and work
locally.

You can check out this short video to see the test from the [candidate's
perspective](https://goo.gl/AXXaTT).

This repo contains a sample project for Terraform and below you can
find a detailed guide for creating your own programming project.

**Please make sure to read our [Getting started with programming
projects](https://goo.gl/gkQU4J) guide first**

## Automatic assessment

It is possible to automatically assess the solution provided by the candidate.
Automatic assessment is based on the plan generated by Terraform and code quality
measurements based on [tflint](https://github.com/terraform-linters/tflint) linter.


**Verification tests** are performed with [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/terraform/) 
and rego rules included in the task that and hidden from the candidate during the test.
Files containing verification tests will be added to the project after
the candidate finishes the test and will be executed during the verification
phase. Verification tests result will be used to calculate the final score.

Once the candidate submits their solution, the platform executes
verification tests by creating a plan from the files provided by the candidate and then it reads the output of the [bats](https://github.com/bats-core/bats-core) tests included in the task.

## DevSkiller project descriptor

Terraform tasks can be configured with the DevSkiller project descriptor file:

1. Create a `devskiller.json` file.
2. Place it in the root directory of your project.

Here is an example project descriptor:

```json
{
    "verification": {
        "testNamePatterns": [
            ".*Verification.*"
        ],
        "pathPatterns": [
            "**verification/verify**"
        ]
    },
    "terraform": {
        "configureProvider": [
            "aws"
        ]
    }
}
```

You can find more details about the `devskiller.json` descriptor in our
[documentation](https://goo.gl/uWXeCD).  

To define the Terraform specific variables in the descriptor use the following pattern:

* `terraform.configureProvider` - a list of providers to configure for the task
* **NOTE:** Currently  you can use only `aws` property. More coming soon! 

## Technical details for Terraform support

A terraform task must include a `terraform` directory with an empty `empty.tf` file to ensure that terraform returns no error during the initialization of the task on the platform. This directory is also a place where candidate provide their solution code to be evaluated.  

There is no need to provide a configuration for the terraform provider (e.g. `provider "aws" {...}` stanza), as all configuration is provided by the platform and uses read-only credentials with a limited scope and privileges.